In this field you will see how we can create our own exception classes and throw and catch them.
This has the advantage of making the type of the exception thrown very explicit and also very specific
for our application.
Best practice is to throw objects not primitive types.
Also we want to throw by value and catch by reference or Konst reference.
There are several other best practices that we'll talk about in a few videos.
So let's see how we can create our own exception classes.
Here we create two exception classes for our simple example.
The first is a class called divide by zero exception.
And the second is called negative value exception.
That's it.
Now when we throw an exception or our code we create an object of one of these types and throw it.
Of course we can provide constructors attributes and methods for these classes as we would for any other
class.
And sometimes it's a good idea to provide information about the exception in these attributes.
But as I said let's keep it simple in this example.
So now let's see what our code would look like.
Throwing these exception objects.
Here's the calculate mpg function that we saw earlier in this section.
The code is pretty much what you would expect.
We checked to see if gallons is 0 and if it is we throw a divide by zero exception object by value.
We then check if either miles or gallons are negative.
And if they are we throw a negative value exception object by value.
That's all there is to it.
Now let's see how we'll call this function.
Noticed it in the try block.
We're again calling calculate miles per gallon and the function may or may not throw an exception if
it does not then we simply assign the result of the function two miles per gallon.
Display it.
Transfer control all the way to the bottom and display by and we're done.
However what if calculate miles per gallon does throw an exception.
Remember it could throw a divide by zero exception where a negative value exception.
So we create to catch handlers one for each exception type and we ride our exception handling code and
the catch blocks.
If an exception is thrown then one of these catch handlers will handle it.
Notice how we're catching the exceptions by Konst ref.
If we had provided attributes or methods in the exception classes we would access them here as before
if we don't handle a particular exception type here then C++ will terminate this function and proceed
up the call stack looking for a handler until it finds one or the program terminates.
Let's head over to the IEEE and we'll see this example in action.
All right so I'm back in the ID and what I've got here is the section 18 workspace and I don't mean
the MPG function exception classes project.
And what we're doing here is we're creating a couple of user defined exception classes which we're going
to throw and catch.
Same thing we did in the slides.
You can see here that on lines 5 through 8 we're creating two classes.
One is called divide by zero exception.
The other is called negative value exception.
Notice there are no attributes no methods no constructors nothing.
These are just plain old classes and we're getting the default constructor and that's good enough for
me right now.
We could provide attributes and methods and all kinds of good stuff but the names of the classes in
this case give us all the information we need about the exception.
So what do we do.
What we have to throw these exception objects when we have an error.
So in this case we check to see if gallons is equal to zero and if it is we throw a divide by zero exception
object does cause the default constructor we checked to see if Miles is less than zero or gallons is
less than zero right.
If either one of those is negative then the result won't be valid.
So we can throw a negative value exception object if none of those is true and we're good to go.
We simply do the calculation and we return miles divided by gallons.
OK.
Just like we've done before.
So now down here let's look at our tri block here we're just grabbing the information from the user.
They've typed in the number of miles number of gallons.
And here's our try block right here.
This is the function we're calling calculate miles per gallon.
It could throw an exception if it does not throw an exception.
We simply assigned two miles per gallon the result of that function call.
We print out the result we're done and then we come down here and we're finished with the program and
we terminate normally if it does throw an exception.
Calculate miles per gallon could throw a divide by zero exception or a negative value exception.
So I've got to catch handlers here.
One for each if I get a divide by zero exception it's coming in here.
There's my exception object if my class did have attributes and methods.
I would certainly be able to call them and use them here.
But in this case I'm just saying sorry you can't divide by zero at that point.
I transfer control down to here it says by and I terminate normally.
Same thing with negative value exception if I get a negative value exception.
I catch that object here and notice I'm catching both of these by Konst ref.
Now I just play sorry one of your parameters is negative.
The catch handler completes and I again I come back here and I finish normally.
So I don't have any abnormal termination in this case.
So let's run this and we'll give it a test real quick.
So let's do a normal test case 123 miles and let's say I used 13 gallons.
So my result is nine point four six exactly what we expect that's running again this time we'll say
123 with zero gallons so we expect a divide by zero message.
Sorry you can't divide by zero.
Notice the bi also happens which means our function terminates our program terminates normally that's
run it one more time with negative for miles and something else for gallons.
Sorry one of your parameters is negative and actually we'll do it one more time for the gallons be negative
as the last test case and we'll say negative three.
Sorry one of your primers is native.
So that's handling all the cases that we've got and we're basically creating our own user defined exception
classes.
Now this is pretty common.
And you can see that it's real nice it's far it's very readable you're throwing an object as you're
supposed to you're catching it by Konst ref like you're supposed chip in a few videos.
We'll talk about see post pusses standard exception hierarchy where it's possible for us to derive our
exception classes from one of C++ is exception classes.
If you're coming from the world of Java and other programming languages that's pretty much what you
do in C++ you have the option of creating the standalone exception classes or buying into the standard
exception class hierarchy that's provided by C++.
But we'll talk about that in.